# Developers

## Demos

Out of the box you can use our docker demo data to play with the system. 

We are using this helpful [database sample repository](https://github.com/harryho/db-samples) to build demo database examples. We add a `User` table and a `UserApiKey` table to facilitate the authentication. 

You can use the following user details for testing:

Email: `test@test.com`
Password: `test`
API key: `Ex@mp1eS$Cu7eAp!K3y`

## Debugging & Logging

You can change the log level via `.env` values, the defaults are shown below:

```
LOG_LEVELS_PROD = "error,warn,log"
LOG_LEVELS_SANDBOX = "error,warn,log,debug"
LOG_LEVELS_TEST = "error,warn,log"
LOG_LEVELS_DEV = "error,warn,log,debug,verbose"
```

To assist with debugging we accept the header property `x-request-id` in all requests, if this is passed, we will echo this with all logs for this specific request/response. This allows you to filter your logs and helps narrow debugging on busy applications. We will also pass `_x_request_id: value` in any response object.

## Data Sources

Below is a step by step guide to adding a new data source, useful for developers wanting to support a new database, data storage tool or other form of data source.

1. Add the demo database / file in the `demo/databases` folder
2. If applicable add this new data source to the development docker instance for local testing
3. Add the new `Enum` to the `DatabaseType` object inside `src/types/database.types.ts` with the name of the new data source
4. Add the ability to detect the database type from the `DATABASE_URI` in the `getDatabaseType()` function at `src/helpers/Database.ts` 
5. Create a new `src/databases/{name}.database.ts` file which handles all of the interactions with the data source. Review the other files to see which functions are needed.
6. Add the new switch case to each function inside `src/helpers/Query.ts` to wire up the new database file.
7. Do the same for the `getSchema()` function inside `src/helpers/Schema.ts`
8. Ensure all test pass using this data source in your `.env`.
9. Submit a PR for a review from our core team. If you have credentials to a testing environment please include them. 

Here is an example pull request with an additional data source being added: 



## Contributing

You can read our [contributing guidelines here](./developers/contributing.md)

## Code Style Guide

You can read our [code style guide here](./developers/code-style-guide.md)